--- lit_search_1.json ---
TITLE: Informer: Beyond Efficient Transformer for Long Sequence Time-Series Forecasting
YEAR: 2021
URL: https://doi.org/10.1609/aaai.v35i12.17325
ABSTRACT: Many real-world applications require the prediction of long sequence time-series, such as electricity consumption planning. Long sequence time-series forecasting (LSTF) demands a high prediction capacity of the model, which is the ability to capture precise long-range dependency coupling between output and input efficiently. Recent studies have shown the potential of Transformer to increase the prediction capacity. However, there are several severe issues with Transformer that prevent it from being directly applicable to LSTF, including quadratic time complexity, high memory usage, and inherent limitation of the encoder-decoder architecture. To address these issues, we design an efficient transformer-based model for LSTF, named Informer, with three distinctive characteristics: (i) a ProbSparse self-attention mechanism, which achieves O(L log L) in time complexity and memory usage, and has comparable performance on sequences' dependency alignment. (ii) the self-attention distilling highlights dominating attention by halving cascading layer input, and efficiently handles extreme long input sequences. (iii) the generative style decoder, while conceptually simple, predicts the long time-series sequences at one forward operation rather than a step-by-step way, which drastically improves the inference speed of long-sequence predictions. Extensive experiments on four large-scale datasets demonstrate that Informer significantly outperforms existing methods and provides a new solution to the LSTF problem.

TITLE: A review and analysis of regression and machine learning models on commercial building electricity load forecasting
YEAR: 2017
URL: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2017.02.023
ABSTRACT: 

TITLE: Review on model predictive control: an engineering perspective
YEAR: 2021
URL: https://doi.org/10.1007/s00170-021-07682-3
ABSTRACT: Abstract Model-based predictive control (MPC) describes a set of advanced control methods, which make use of a process model to predict the future behavior of the controlled system. By solving a—potentially constrained—optimization problem, MPC determines the control law implicitly. This shifts the effort for the design of a controller towards modeling of the to-be-controlled process. Since such models are available in many fields of engineering, the initial hurdle for applying control is deceased with MPC. Its implicit formulation maintains the physical understanding of the system parameters facilitating the tuning of the controller. Model-based predictive control (MPC) can even control systems, which cannot be controlled by conventional feedback controllers. With most of the theory laid out, it is time for a concise summary of it and an application-driven survey. This review article should serve as such. While in the beginnings of MPC, several widely noticed review paper have been published, a comprehensive overview on the latest developments, and on applications, is missing today. This article reviews the current state of the art including theory, historic evolution, and practical considerations to create intuitive understanding. We lay special attention on applications in order to demonstrate what is already possible today. Furthermore, we provide detailed discussion on implantation details in general and strategies to cope with the computational burden—still a major factor in the design of MPC. Besides key methods in the development of MPC, this review points to the future trends emphasizing why they are the next logical steps in MPC.

TITLE: Deep Learning for Household Load Forecasting—A Novel Pooling Deep RNN
YEAR: 2017
URL: https://doi.org/10.1109/tsg.2017.2686012
ABSTRACT: The key challenge for household load forecasting lies in the high volatility and uncertainty of load profiles. Traditional methods tend to avoid such uncertainty by load aggregation (to offset uncertainties), customer classification (to cluster uncertainties) and spectral analysis (to filter out uncertainties). This paper, for the first time, aims to directly learn the uncertainty by applying a new breed of machine learning algorithms-deep learning. However, simply adding layers in neural networks will cap the forecasting performance due to the occurrence of over-fitting. A novel pooling-based deep recurrent neural network is proposed in this paper which batches a group of customers' load profiles into a pool of inputs. Essentially the model could address the over-fitting issue by increasing data diversity and volume. This paper reports the first attempts to develop a bespoke deep learning application for household load forecasting and achieved preliminary success. The developed method is implemented on Tensorflow deep learning platform and tested on 920 smart metered customers from Ireland. Compared with the state-of-the-art techniques in household load forecasting, the proposed method outperforms ARIMA by 19.5%, SVR by 13.1% and classical deep RNN by 6.5% in terms of RMSE.

TITLE: Research on a forecasted load-and time delay-based model predictive control (MPC) district energy system model
YEAR: 2020
URL: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enbuild.2020.110631
ABSTRACT: 

--- lit_search_2.json ---
TITLE: Ensemble Learning for Load Forecasting
YEAR: 2020
URL: https://doi.org/10.1109/tgcn.2020.2987304
ABSTRACT: In this paper, an ensemble learning approach is proposed for load forecasting in urban power systems. The proposed framework consists of two levels of learners that integrate clustering, Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM), and a Fully Connected Cascade (FCC) neural network. Historical load data is first partitioned by a clustering algorithm to train multiple LSTM models in the level-one learner, and then the FCC model in the second level is used to fuse the multiple level-one models. A modified Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) algorithm is used to train the FCC model for fast and stable convergence. The proposed framework is tested with two public datasets for short-term and mid-term forecasting at the system, zone and client levels. The evaluation using real-world datasets demonstrates the superior performance of the proposed model over several state-of-the-art schemes. For the ISO-NE Dataset for Years 2010 and 2011, an average reduction in mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) of 10.17% and 11.67% are achieved over the four baseline schemes, respectively.

TITLE: A Comprehensive Review of the Load Forecasting Techniques Using Single and Hybrid Predictive Models
YEAR: 2020
URL: https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2020.3010702
ABSTRACT: Load forecasting is a pivotal part of the power utility companies. To provide load-shedding free and uninterrupted power to the consumer, decision-makers in the utility sector must forecast the future demand for electricity with a minimum error percentage. Load prediction with less percentage of error can save millions of dollars to the utility companies. There are numerous Machine Learning (ML) techniques to amicably forecast electricity demand, among which the hybrid models show the best result. Two or more than two predictive models are amalgamated to design a hybrid model, each of which provides improved performances by the merit of individual algorithms. This paper reviews the current state-of-the-art of electric load forecasting technologies and presents recent works pertaining to the combination of different ML algorithms into two or more methods for the construction of hybrid models. A comprehensive study of each single and multiple load forecasting model is performed with an in-depth analysis of their advantages, disadvantages, and functions. A comparison between their performance in terms of Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE), and Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) values are developed with pertinent literature of several models to aid the researchers with the selection of suitable models for load prediction.

TITLE: SEAS5: the new ECMWF seasonal forecast system
YEAR: 2019
URL: https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-12-1087-2019
ABSTRACT: Abstract. In this paper we describe SEAS5, ECMWF's fifth generation seasonal forecast system, which became operational in November 2017. Compared to its predecessor, System 4, SEAS5 is a substantially changed forecast system. It includes upgraded versions of the atmosphere and ocean models at higher resolutions, and adds a prognostic sea-ice model. Here, we describe the configuration of SEAS5 and summarise the most noticeable results from a set of diagnostics including biases, variability, teleconnections and forecast skill. An important improvement in SEAS5 is the reduction of the equatorial Pacific cold tongue bias, which is accompanied by a more realistic El Niño amplitude and an improvement in El Niño prediction skill over the central-west Pacific. Improvements in 2 m temperature skill are also clear over the tropical Pacific. Sea-surface temperature (SST) biases in the northern extratropics change due to increased ocean resolution, especially in regions associated with western boundary currents. The increased ocean resolution exposes a new problem in the northwest Atlantic, where SEAS5 fails to capture decadal variability of the North Atlantic subpolar gyre, resulting in a degradation of DJF 2 m temperature prediction skill in this region. The prognostic sea-ice model improves seasonal predictions of sea-ice cover, although some regions and seasons suffer from biases introduced by employing a fully dynamical model rather than the simple, empirical scheme used in System 4. There are also improvements in 2 m temperature skill in the vicinity of the Arctic sea-ice edge. Cold temperature biases in the troposphere improve, but increase at the tropopause. Biases in the extratropical jets are larger than in System 4: extratropical jets are too strong, and displaced northwards in JJA. In summary, development and added complexity since System 4 has ensured that SEAS5 is a state-of-the-art seasonal forecast system which continues to display a particular strength in the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO) prediction.

TITLE: A Survey on Power System Blackout and Cascading Events: Research Motivations and Challenges
YEAR: 2019
URL: https://doi.org/10.3390/en12040682
ABSTRACT: Power systems are the most complex systems and have great importance in modern life. They have direct impacts on the modernization, economic, political and social aspects. To operate such systems in a stable mode, several control and protection techniques are required. However, modern systems are equipped with several protection schemes with the aim of avoiding the unpredicted events and power outages, power systems are still encountering emergency and mal-operation situations. The most severe emergencies put the whole or at least a part of the system in danger. If the emergency is not well managed, the power system is likely to have cascading failures that might lead to a blackout. Due to the consequences, many countries around the world have research and expert teams who work to avoid blackouts on their systems. In this paper, a comprehensive review on the major blackouts and cascading events that have occurred in the last decade are introduced. A particular focus is given on the US power system outages and their causes since it is one of the leading power producers in the world and it is also due to the ready availability of data for the past events. The paper also highlights the root causes of different blackouts around the globe. Furthermore, blackout and cascading analysis methods and the consequences of blackouts are surveyed. Moreover, the challenges in the existing protective schemes and research gaps in the topic of power system blackout and cascading events are marked out. Research directions and issues to be considered in future power system blackout studies are also proposed.

TITLE: Load Forecasting Under Concept Drift: Online Ensemble Learning With Recurrent Neural Network and ARIMA
YEAR: 2021
URL: https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2021.3095420
ABSTRACT: Rapid expansion of smart metering technologies has enabled large-scale collection of electricity consumption data and created the foundation for sensor-based load forecasting on individual buildings or even the household level. With continuously growing energy consumption, the importance of energy management including load forecasting is increasing in order to remedy the energy effect on the environment. Numerous machine learning techniques have been proposed for sensor-based load forecasting but most are offline approaches: the model is trained once and then used to infer future consumption. However, these approaches are not able to adapt to concept drift: for example, their accuracy will degrade when the building use changes or new equipment is installed. Thus, an approach capable of learning from new data as they arrive is needed. This paper proposes adaptive online ensemble learning with Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) and ARIMA for load forecasting under concept drift. The RNN part of the ensembles consists of Online Adaptive RNN as its underlying RNN learner has the ability to model temporal dependencies present in load data while its online nature enables continuous learning from arriving data. The adaptation to the concept drift is improved by adding Rolling ARIMA to the ensemble. The performance of the proposed approach has been examined on the four individual homes with different degrees of concept drift. The results show that the proposed ensemble achieves better accuracy than its constituent algorithms alone and, moreover, the analysis demonstrates the need to examine load forecasting approaches in respect to how they handle concept drift.

--- lit_search_3.json ---
TITLE: Interrupted time series regression for the evaluation of public health interventions: a tutorial
YEAR: 2016
URL: https://doi.org/10.1093/ije/dyw098
ABSTRACT: Interrupted time series (ITS) analysis is a valuable study design for evaluating the effectiveness of population-level health interventions that have been implemented at a clearly defined point in time. It is increasingly being used to evaluate the effectiveness of interventions ranging from clinical therapy to national public health legislation. Whereas the design shares many properties of regression-based approaches in other epidemiological studies, there are a range of unique features of time series data that require additional methodological considerations. In this tutorial we use a worked example to demonstrate a robust approach to ITS analysis using segmented regression. We begin by describing the design and considering when ITS is an appropriate design choice. We then discuss the essential, yet often omitted, step of proposing the impact model a priori. Subsequently, we demonstrate the approach to statistical analysis including the main segmented regression model. Finally we describe the main methodological issues associated with ITS analysis: over-dispersion of time series data, autocorrelation, adjusting for seasonal trends and controlling for time-varying confounders, and we also outline some of the more complex design adaptations that can be used to strengthen the basic ITS design.

TITLE: ADVANCED SPECTRAL METHODS FOR CLIMATIC TIME SERIES
YEAR: 2002
URL: https://doi.org/10.1029/2000rg000092
ABSTRACT: The analysis of univariate or multivariate time series provides crucial information to describe, understand, and predict climatic variability. The discovery and implementation of a number of novel methods for extracting useful information from time series has recently revitalized this classical field of study. Considerable progress has also been made in interpreting the information so obtained in terms of dynamical systems theory. In this review we describe the connections between time series analysis and nonlinear dynamics, discuss signal‐to‐noise enhancement, and present some of the novel methods for spectral analysis. The various steps, as well as the advantages and disadvantages of these methods, are illustrated by their application to an important climatic time series, the Southern Oscillation Index. This index captures major features of interannual climate variability and is used extensively in its prediction. Regional and global sea surface temperature data sets are used to illustrate multivariate spectral methods. Open questions and further prospects conclude the review.

TITLE: Phase lag index: Assessment of functional connectivity from multi channel EEG and MEG with diminished bias from common sources
YEAR: 2007
URL: https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.20346
ABSTRACT: OBJECTIVE: To address the problem of volume conduction and active reference electrodes in the assessment of functional connectivity, we propose a novel measure to quantify phase synchronization, the phase lag index (PLI), and compare its performance to the well-known phase coherence (PC), and to the imaginary component of coherency (IC). METHODS: The PLI is a measure of the asymmetry of the distribution of phase differences between two signals. The performance of PLI, PC, and IC was examined in (i) a model of 64 globally coupled oscillators, (ii) an EEG with an absence seizure, (iii) an EEG data set of 15 Alzheimer patients and 13 control subjects, and (iv) two MEG data sets. RESULTS: PLI and PC were more sensitive than IC to increasing levels of true synchronization in the model. PC and IC were influenced stronger than PLI by spurious correlations because of common sources. All measures detected changes in synchronization during the absence seizure. In contrast to PC, PLI and IC were barely changed by the choice of different montages. PLI and IC were superior to PC in detecting changes in beta band connectivity in AD patients. Finally, PLI and IC revealed a different spatial pattern of functional connectivity in MEG data than PC. CONCLUSION: The PLI performed at least as well as the PC in detecting true changes in synchronization in model and real data but, at the same token and like-wise the IC, it was much less affected by the influence of common sources and active reference electrodes.

TITLE: The Gaussian Graphical Model in Cross-Sectional and Time-Series Data
YEAR: 2018
URL: https://doi.org/10.1080/00273171.2018.1454823
ABSTRACT: We discuss the Gaussian graphical model (GGM; an undirected network of partial correlation coefficients) and detail its utility as an exploratory data analysis tool. The GGM shows which variables predict one-another, allows for sparse modeling of covariance structures, and may highlight potential causal relationships between observed variables. We describe the utility in three kinds of psychological data sets: data sets in which consecutive cases are assumed independent (e.g., cross-sectional data), temporally ordered data sets (e.g., n = 1 time series), and a mixture of the 2 (e.g., n > 1 time series). In time-series analysis, the GGM can be used to model the residual structure of a vector-autoregression analysis (VAR), also termed graphical VAR. Two network models can then be obtained: a temporal network and a contemporaneous network. When analyzing data from multiple subjects, a GGM can also be formed on the covariance structure of stationary means-the between-subjects network. We discuss the interpretation of these models and propose estimation methods to obtain these networks, which we implement in the R packages graphicalVAR and mlVAR. The methods are showcased in two empirical examples, and simulation studies on these methods are included in the supplementary materials.

TITLE: Inferring causation from time series in Earth system sciences
YEAR: 2019
URL: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-10105-3
ABSTRACT: The heart of the scientific enterprise is a rational effort to understand the causes behind the phenomena we observe. In large-scale complex dynamical systems such as the Earth system, real experiments are rarely feasible. However, a rapidly increasing amount of observational and simulated data opens up the use of novel data-driven causal methods beyond the commonly adopted correlation techniques. Here, we give an overview of causal inference frameworks and identify promising generic application cases common in Earth system sciences and beyond. We discuss challenges and initiate the benchmark platform causeme.net to close the gap between method users and developers.

